[Music]
so you're frying some bacon with a drop
of hot oil pops and lands right on your
hand now imagine the same thing
happening but it's lava your bacon will
definitely be burnt but what about your
hand you'd probably be saying other
words besides ouch which we can't repeat
here lava it's the stuff that flows from
volcanoes it starts out as something
called magma also known as hot liquid
rock magma urns it's lava status once it
gather some courage and comes out of
it's shell I mean when it surfaces it's
not just a terminology thing that magma
also loses some gases and acids when it
gets its new name tag so exactly how hot
is the stuff well that depends on how
fresh it is lava here get your fresh hot
lava right here take some lava its
hottest when it first erupts from
underground and cools down as it flows
you can make an educated guess of his
temperature based on the color
lava temp 101 a brighter the hotter it
starts out bright orange and burning at
about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit then it
cools down to bright red about 1,600
degrees dark red 1,300 degrees brownish
red 1000 degrees and finally black when
it's hardened 2,000 degrees think of the
hottest day you could ever bear what was
it a hundred something outside multiply
that by 20 and now imagine a drop of it
falling on your hand
hmm yeah I'll put it this way let's say
your cat-like reflexes pulls your arm
away before the lava can make contact
well it just continued its gravity
driven journey and burn through your
floor and maybe drip dropping through
the neighbors ceiling and floor below
though remember this stuff is liquid
rock and it cools down when it's not 100
miles below the surface of the earth
you'd still have a fire to deal with so
grab the extinguisher fast wait where'd
you get this lava anyway in some kind of
indestructible dropper that keeps it hot
enough to remain liquefied do they sell
online fine we'll go with it so if the
floor couldn't stop it
you can go ahead and call that soft
fleshy arm of yours
lava lunch you ever see those videos of
people melting metal and pouring it on
stuff I imagine you'd have yourself and
in one side out the other situation on
your hand literally but if it's a tiny
drop it'd be more like a new lava real
estate the gooey fiery stuff would
eventually cool Harden and stick to your
skin your new mole would still burn like
the dickens don't you doubt it but
here's the good news you wouldn't feel
the scorching pain at least not right
away your nerves would be burnt before
you have that time to react the take
away never ever touch lava but you know
that so let's stir things up let's try a
little hypothetical thought experiment
imagine you can withstand the
temperatures you're superhuman like
those people who can swallow hot lead
but you're even more epic with an
insatiable hunger to test your powers
even when you were little you always
liked food with a kick you could eat the
hottest buffalo wings in the city while
grown adults were reaching for that
glass of milk after a couple bites you
were asking for more hot sauce as a team
you could drink the hottest hot sauce
like water as we're actual water you can
chug it from a boiling pot doctors
couldn't explain your abilities you're a
phenomena you make headlines your
journey continued after college you
decide to find the hottest pepper on the
planet the Carolina Reaper this pepper
has been known to send people to the
hospital it can literally burn your
tongue these horror stories only attract
you so you booked a ticket to South
Carolina immediately you arrived at a
local plantation and the farmer gives
you the rapists reddest hottest pepper
he's got you take a deep breath bite off
half and nothing you don't feel the
spice only a sweet taste confused and
upset you eat a few more of the red
green CLE peppers but still feel nothing
all the shock farmer can say is the only
thing hotter than this pepper is lava
itself well he might have been joking
but even weeks later you can't get those
words out of your head what if you tried
just a drop with lava be your perfect
hot sauce the one you've searched for
your whole life your curiosity brings
you to Hawaii home of the most active
volcano in the world
Kilauea red hot lava flows from it all
the time like tentacles of fiery rivers
reaching out in all directions
the idea of tasting the deepest oldest
part of this planet it consumes you
sounds poetic but it's true you see it's
hot enough to melt rock underground and
the deeper you go the higher the
temperatures get eventually you reach
the core the heart of our planet that's
been burning since the beginning veins
of magma flow up from the outer core
through the mantle and towards the
surface sometimes especially thick magma
builds up so much pressure that it gets
blown out in an explosive eruption
that's the more theatrical type of
display there are also effusive
eruptions wear thin runny lava just
slowly and quietly loses out yeah not as
exciting anyway it's time to taste
Kilauea
you start your ascent ignoring the
crusty dark specimens not hot enough
remember you climb higher where the lava
will be brighter fresher and hotter you
take out a cast iron spoon here it is
the moment of truth
you scooped up a small amount of lava
feel its heat and let a couple drops
fall into your mouth
oh yeah it's really hot you finally feel
it but what a disgusting taste like
eating rocks yuck no doubt about it you
haven't found the perfect ultimate hot
sauce but you can enjoy the enchanting
and terrifying view of the volcano the
lava lake below boils like a rich soup
thick hot fumes rise into the air
because of them you would have passed
out long before you even made it to the
rim to enjoy the few but we'll ignore
that part standing there feeling a
little
appointed but still in awe you can't
help but wonder what if someone fell in
you might have a stomach of Steel but
you decide not to try your luck plus you
vaguely recall that a certain lightbulb
inspired YouTube channel made a really
fun and informative video about falling
into a volcano
hmm I'll have to re-watch that you say
to yourself as you descend the mound and
head back home wow what a trip hmm I
think I want some buffalo wings now
anyway if you learn something new today
or had a good time along the way then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]